When you really listen to me.
When you talk to me
I can tell if you're really listening,
even if you think I can't.
It's not just what you say,
it's how you look at me,
your voice,
whether you're rushing
or actually there.
Sometimes I start to say something,
and then I stop.
Not because I've got nothing to say,
but because I'm not sure it's safe to say it.
You might ask me questions,
you might try to help.
But what you might not realize is.
My body is already trying to work out if I'm OK.
The part of my brain that looks for danger,
it's always on,
so I'm watching you.
Are you calm?
Are you annoyed?
Are you going to get frustrated with me?
Because if I feel that,
even a little bit,
I might shut down
or change the subject,
or say,
I'm fine
when I'm not.
When you really listen,
it feels different.
You don't rush me,
you don't jump in too quickly.
You let me think,
even if it's quiet for a bit.
And yeah.
Sometimes it's awkward,
but that space matters
because my thoughts don't always come out properly.
Sometimes they're mixed up.
Sometimes I don't even understand them myself.
My body reacts before I can think.
So if you push me,
ask too many questions,
or try to get to the point quickly,
the thinking part of my brain kind of switches off,
and then I can't explain it.
Even if I want to.
You might think I'm avoiding it,
but I'm not.
I just can't get there yet.
When you slow down.
When your voice stays calm,
it helps my body settle.
It tells me I'm not in trouble.
It tells me I'm safe enough to keep going.
Even small things matter,
like sitting next to me instead of standing over me,
or not reacting straight away when I say something difficult,
because I'm watching for that moment,
the moment where you might change,
the moment where you might judge me
or get annoyed.
And if that happens,
I'll probably stop talking.
That's happened before.
So when you stay steady,
when you don't react in a big way,
it makes it easier,
not straight away,
but a bit at a time.
That's what helps me trust you.
Not big speeches,
not loads of questions,
just
you being there,
listening,
trying to understand,
and not making it worse,
because when you do that,
I can say a bit more,
and then a bit more after that,
and eventually,
you get the full story,
but only because you didn't rush me to tell it.